MICHAEL BIERMAN

408 692 5229
www.thebiermans.net
resume (at) thebiermans.net
santa clara, california

PROFILE

More than 10 years experience product management and design with emphasis on 
web and mobile platforms, consumer, and developer software. Proven ability to 
identify successful new product opportunities, reinvigorate and grow existing 
product lines, set a long-term strategy consistent with brand promise, and 
champion a product internally and externally. Strong technical skills combined 
with business acumen.

PROFESSIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

Product Management

* Managed web developer products for Nokia covering 85% of the potential 
developer market. Created first four generations of Nokia Web SDK with a team 
spread over three continents. These products are essential components of 
Nokia's complete, industry-leading mobile developer offerings.

* Created eBay Blogs to enhance eBay's renowned community and drive significant 
natural search traffic through community-created, persistent, rich content. 
Buyers and sellers use eBay Blogs to enhance their credibility, 
trustworthiness, and reputation while eBay enjoys increased time on site and 
transaction volumes.

* Redesigned eBay's Product Description Pages to drive a $1.8M annual increase 
in transaction activity and significant increases in page views via natural 
search.

* Managed all phases of the product life cycle on time and within budget for 
three consecutive releases of Adobe SVG Viewer, including market (MRD) and 
product requirement (PRD) documents and product integration with Adobe's 
authoring tools and servers, including Illustrator, GoLive and Graphics Server.

* Developed a licensing and distribution strategy for Adobe SVG Viewer, 
including third-party distribution with partners such as RealNetworks, 
establishing more than 166 million seats (38% market penetration) installed 
over approximately 14 months.

* Turned 300 unique support contracts with non-standard terms worth more than 
$225M into three standard contracts to ensure Sun could meet the contractual 
obligations to its Java source licensees. Created royalty and support revenue 
forecasts.

* Led a cross-functional team to improve the out-of-box experience by 
simplifying the product installation, increasing customer satisfaction and 
converting more evaluations into purchases, and saved Microtec more than 
$250,000 annually.

* Created the prototype and wrote the feature requirements for Microtec's first 
on-line documentation system, increased usability and reduced the costs of 
documentation by 23%.

* Increased Microtec's support renewal revenue by 15% in one year.

Evangelism

* Represented Adobe at conferences and seminars such as Seybold, Builder.com, 
and FlashForward. Awarded the Adobe Customer Briefing Center's Quarterly Top 
Presenter and Speaker of the Year awards.

* Created an early adopter community to inform and inspire developers by 
communicating Adobe strategy, delivering announcements, and gathering 
requirements to establish Adobe's product leadership.

* Managed staff of five to create and evolve a developer network 
(www.adobe.com/svg) including demos, whitepapers, and authoring guides to 
educate and inspire SVG technology adoption.

* Served as Adobe's Marketing liaison to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), 
ensuring that Adobe's messages were congruent with the W3C.



EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

Nokia Lead Product Manager, Web Tools

Managed Nokia's first set of web tools starting from a blank slate. The full 
suite of Web Developer tools now includes: Nokia Web SDK, Web SDK Simulator 
built with Qt WebKit, Nokia Designer, Nokia WRT plug-in for Eclipse, WRT 
extension for Adobe Dreamweaver and WRT plug-in for Microsoft Visual Studio. 
These tools enable the full life cycle of rich mobile application development, 
from concept and ideation to publishing. Challenges included aligning diverse 
and sometimes conflicting requirements and roadmaps for every device and most 
services in Nokia's portfolio. An innovator in mobile web technology, Nokia was 
the first to ship a WebKit-based browser on mobile devices, beating Apple to 
market by two years. Nokia's web platform includes APIs enabling web developers 
to create rich mobile applications. 2008-Present

Product Management Consultant	

Provided guidance on how to move the product-line to the next level including 
product and process definition, requirements development and roadmaps. 
Recommended changes to product usability, accessibility, and development 
processes. Assist Guide Information Services and other companies. 2007-2008

Habeas Senior Product Manager

Conceived and launched new products that created a competitive advantage based 
on Adobe Flex, a Yahoo! Map mashup, and populated by a combination of in-house 
and third-party data. Developed a platform for a new line of business focused 
on advertising. 2006-2007

eBay Senior Product Manager, Internet Marketing & Community

Launched new products, such as eBay Blogs and redesigned the Product 
Description pages, to enhance the eBay Community and maximize natural search 
traffic and decrease eBay's paid search expenditure. 2005-2006

Product Management Consultant	

Consulted for a number of companies on a variety of product management and 
marketing areas including: Adobe, BEA, enScaler, Ideaburst, Open Design 
Alliance, and Software Mechanics. 2001-2005

Adobe Systems Senior Product Manager and Evangelist 

Managed the direction and definition of the Adobe SVG Viewer, a browser plug-in 
similar to Adobe Flash. As SVG Evangelist, influenced the Creative Suite SVG 
authoring features and created a vibrant developer community. Scalable Vector 
Graphics (SVG) is the W3C's XML-based language for scriptable 2D vector 
graphics that enables data-driven graphics for web, wireless and print. 
1999-2001

Sun Microsystems Product Manager, Java Source Licensee Engineering

Managed an engineering services product and provided customer relations and 
advocacy by serving as the liaison among the engineering, legal, and sales 
organizations. 1997-1999

Microtec, A Mentor Graphics Company Project Manager, Marketing	

Managed a compiler and IDE product, introduced new licensing programs, and 
served as Lead Auditor for ISO 9000 registration for Microtec's IDE's and a 
Real-Time OS. 1995-1997

Globetrotter Software, A Macrovision Corporation Training/Technical Support

Developed and delivered course materials, provided end user and first line 
developer support and produced and edited end-user and developer manuals and 
marketing materials for Globetrotter's license-management products for 
enterprise and software publishers. 1994-1995

Sun Microsystems, SunPro Developer Tools

Product Manager for FlexLM licensing served as the FrameMaker Guru and 
developed tools and scripts for document development and technical editor for 
developer documentation.  1990-1994



EDUCATION, CERTIFICATIONS, PUBLICATIONS & AWARDS

* Certified ScrumMaster, cPrime 2011

* U.S. Patent Pending 60/950,102 "Method and Apparatus For Visualizing and
  Optimizing Message Transfer in Reputation Networks," Bierman et al.,
  July 16, 2007

* Bachelor of Arts; California State University, Northridge

* Mediation Certification, California Community Dispute Resolution

* Award for Excellence, Society for Technical Communication Style Guide 1994

* Adobe Customer Briefing Center's Quarterly Top Presenter and
    Speaker of the Year award 2000


Michael Bierman 	michael (at) thebiermans.net	408 692 5229	
thebiermans.net



