
Michael Bierman
santa clara, california	?	www.thebiermans.net	?	resume (at) thebiermans.net	?	408 692 5229

Profile
More than 15 years of product management and design experience of mobile and web products, platforms, and 
APIs, with a focus on eCommerce, developer and consumer applications. Ability to identify new product 
opportunities, reinvigorate and grow product lines, set long-term strategy consistent with brand promise, and 
champion a product internally and externally. Strong technical skills combined with business acumen applied to 
identify the problems to be solved and work with all the constituents to plan and prioritize.
Professional Highlights
Product Management
*	Managed web developer products for Nokia covering 85% of the addressable developer market. Created 
first four generations of Nokia Web SDK with a team spread over three continents. These products were 
essential components of Nokia's industry-leading mobile developer offerings.
*	Created eBay Blogs to enhance eBay’s renowned community by driving significant natural search traffic 
through user-generated, persistent, rich content. Buyers and sellers used eBay Blogs to enhance their 
credibility, trustworthiness, and reputation while eBay enjoyed increased time on site and transaction 
volumes.
*	Redesigned eBay’s Product Description Pages to drive a $1.8M annual increase in transaction activity 
and significant increases in page views via natural search.
*	Managed all phases of the product life cycle on time and within budget for three consecutive releases of 
Adobe SVG Viewer, including market (MRD) and product requirement (PRD) documents and product 
integration with Adobe’s authoring tools and servers including Illustrator, InDesign, GoLive and Graphics 
Server.
*	Developed a licensing and distribution strategy for Adobe SVG Viewer, including third-party distribution 
with partners such as RealNetworks, establishing more than 166 million seats (38% market penetration) 
installed over approximately 14 months.
*	Turned 300 support contracts with non-standard terms worth more than $225M into three standard 
contracts to ensure Sun could meet the contractual obligations to its Java source licensees. Created 
royalty and support revenue forecasts.
*	Led a cross-functional team to improve the out-of-box experience by simplifying the product installation, 
increasing customer satisfaction and converting more evaluations into purchases, and saving Microtec 
more than $250,000 annually.
*	Created the prototype and requirements for Microtec’s first on-line documentation system, which 
increased usability and reduced the cost of documentation by 23%.
*	Increased Microtec’s support renewal revenue by 15% in one year.


Employment History
Comcast Principal Product Manager, Personal Media	2014–Present
Leading initiatives for casting photos, videos, and live video streams on TV from XFINITY mobile apps. Created 
new ways of acquiring and retaining users of our X1 set-top apps through personalization, improved user flows, 
and making an amazing experience for sharing media in a 10' experience.
WalmartLabs Principal Product Manager, Mobile Services	2012–2014
Walmart does eCommerce at incredible scale. Mobile Services enabled a dozen mobile applications across four 
platforms (Android, iPhone, iPad, and mWeb) and three properties (ASDA, Sam's Club, and Walmart). As the 
Product Owner for Mobile Services, I collected requirements for new APIs to orchestrate internal and 3rd party 
APIs which enable end-to-end mCommerce, including in-store and multi-channel features, which optimize for 
mobile clients by reducing number of calls and payload sizes, reducing client resources (battery, CPU, bandwidth, 
etc.), while keeping as much business logic out of the client as possible. Projects include a Pharmacy make over, 
Checkout, payment and shipping enhancements, and holiday promotions. My team also has responsibility for 
Security, Operational Analytics, and Production Support.
Apigee Principal Product Manager, Developer Tools	2011–2012
Lead cross-product initiatives like Single Sign-On to consolidate eight unique user stores and experiences. Created 
developer tools such as Console which enable a developer to make an API request in minutes by providing an 
overview of all the API‘s methods, parameters, default and required values, contextual help, and authentication. 
Consoles include a social component: allowing developers to share their API requests and responses with other 
developers and support engineers via Facebook, twitter or in blogs. Applied agile principals to achieve monthly 
release cycles that allowed for rapid innovation and predictability.
Nokia Lead Product Manager, Web Tools	2008–2011
Managed the WRT developer toolchain from a blank slate. The Nokia Web SDK, Web SDK Simulator; Nokia 
Designer, a rapid prototyping tool; Nokia Web Runtime plug-in for Eclipse, WRT extension for Adobe 
Dreamweaver and WRT plugin for Microsoft Visual Studio. These enabled the full life cycle of mobile application 
development, from concept and ideation to publishing. Challenges included aligning diverse and sometimes 
conflicting requirements and roadmaps for the many devices and services in Nokia’s portfolio. An innovator in 
mobile web, Nokia shipped a WebKit-based browser on mobile devices two years before Apple.
Product Management Consultant	2007–2008
Advised Silicon Valley startups including Product definition, requirements, and roadmaps. Recommended changes 
to improve usability, accessibility, and development processes for Assist Guide Information Services and others.
Habeas Senior Product Manager	2006–2007
Conceived and launched new products based on Adobe Flex, a Yahoo! Map mashup (patent pending). Developed 
a platform for a new line of business focused on advertising.
eBay Senior Product Manager, Internet Marketing & Community	2005–2006
Launched new products, such as eBay Blogs and redesigned the Product Description pages, to enhance the eBay 
Community and maximize natural search traffic and decrease eBay’s paid search expenditure.
Product Management Consultant	2001–2005
Consulted for a number of companies on a variety of product management and marketing areas including: 
Adobe, BEA, enScaler, Ideaburst, Open Design Alliance, and Software Mechanics.
Adobe Systems Senior Product Manager and Evangelist	1999–2001
Managed the Adobe SVG Viewer, a browser plug-in similar to Flash. As SVG Evangelist, influenced the Creative 
Suite-SVG authoring features and created a vibrant developer community. Represented Adobe at conferences 
such as Seybold, Builder.com, and FlashForward. Managed a staff to create and evolve a developer network 
including demos, whitepapers, and authoring guides to educate and inspire SVG adoption.
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is the W3C’s XML-based language for scriptable 2D vector graphics that enables 
data-driven graphics for web, mobile and print, and is now supported in all popular web browsers.
Additional Work Experience
Sun Microsystems Product Manager, Java Source Engineering	1997–1999
Microtec, A Mentor Graphics Company Project Manager, Marketing	1995–1997
Globetrotter Software, A Macrovision Corp Training/Technical Support	1994–1995
Sun Microsystems, SunPro Developer Tools	1990–1994


Education, Certifications, Publications & Awards
*	Certified ScrumMaster, cPrime 2011
*	Dean’s List for Computer Forensics coursework/ Computer Science Program, College of San Mateo 2004
*	U.S. Patent Pending 60/950,102 “Method and Apparatus For Visualizing and Optimizing Message 
Transfer in Reputation Networks,” Bierman et al., July 16, 2007
*	Cagle, Kurt, foreword by Bierman, Michael; SVG Programming. Berkeley: Apress, July 2002 Bachelor of 
Arts; California State University, Northridge
*	Mediation Certification, California Community Dispute Resolution
*	Award for Excellence, Society for Technical Communication Style Guide 1994
*	Adobe Customer Briefing Center’s Quarterly Top Presenter and Speaker of the Year award 2000
Contact
 
 
Web Site
Call Michael

Michael Bierman 	michael (at) thebiermans.net	408 692 5229	thebiermans.net	3